Abstract

Information about pretraining corpora used to train the current best-performing language models is seldom discussed: commercial models rarely detail their data, and even open models are often released without accompanying training data or recipes to reproduce them. As a result, it is challenging to conduct and advance scientific research on language modeling, such as understanding how training data impacts model capabilities and limitations. To facilitate scientific research on language model pretraining, we curate and release Dolma, a three-trillion-token English corpus, built from a diverse mixture of web content, scientific papers, code, public-domain books, social media, and encyclopedic materials. We extensively document Dolma, including its design principles, details about its construction, and a summary of its contents. We present analyses and experimental results on intermediate states of Dolma to share what we have learned about important data curation practices. Finally, we open-source our data curation toolkit to enable reproduction of our work as well as support further research in large-scale data curation.

1 Introduction

Language models are now central to tackling myriad natural language processing tasks, including few-shot learning, summarization, question answering, and more. Increasingly, the most powerful language models are built by a few organizations who withhold most model development details (Anthropic, 2023; OpenAI, 2023; Anil et al., 2023; Gemini Team et al., 2023). In particular, the composition of language model pretraining data is often vaguely described, even in cases where the model itself is released for public use, such as Llama 2 (Touvron et al., 2023b). This hinders understanding of the effects of pretraining corpus composition on model capabilities and limitations, with impacts on scientific progress as well as on the public who interfaces with these models. Our aim is to increase participation in scientific research of language models through open corpora:

- Data transparency helps developers and users of applications that rely on language models to make more informed decisions (Gebru et al., 2021). For example, models have shown to perform better on tasks that are more similar to their pretraining data (Razeghi et al., 2022; Kandpal et al., 2023), or social biases in models’ pretraining data may necessitate additional consideration when using them (Feng et al., 2023; Navigli et al., 2023; Seshadri et al., 2023).

- Open pretraining data is necessary to analyze how...